okay well let's bring in Mustafa bouti
who is the Secretary General of the
Palestinian national initiative he joins
us now live from rala a very warm
welcome to you so I'm sure you are aware
of the scenes coming out of the north of
Gaza this evening along with images of
as many as a 100,000 Palestinians who
have been forced South uh by uh Israel
by Israeli forces combining those two
events how do you see this playing
that well we're not just following I'm
in touch with our colleagues in Gaza we
have many Medical Teams working there
and suffering from this terrible
situation the only description of what's
happening is that Israel is conducting
three war crimes at the same time the
war crime of ethnic cleansing where they
have forced 1.5 million people to evict
their homes and uh after destroying them
and and uh the war crime of genocide
because what we see is nothing but
genocide uh with with more than 11,000
Palestinians killed and probably 6,000
children killed if we count those who
are under the rebel and that nobody can
get to because of Israeli air strikes
and that is of course all combined with
Collective punishment uh Collective
punishment depriving people from water
electricity Fuel and you have seen that
out of the 35 hospitals in Gaza uh
practically 18 or 20 have stopped
working because of lack of fuel uh even
those who are remaining uh functioning
they are bombarded constantly we've seen
horrible sites of uh horrible scenes of
bombarding the Indonesian Hospital the
anaser hospital the ABD rantis pediatric
hospital and now the shifa hospital H so
many people were killed inside the
hospitals all including doctors nurses
all of this is happening despite the
promise of these 4our pauses um with at
least 3 hours notice I mean what does
that say about the success of diplomacy
so far to
you there was no ceasefire really and no
pose uh the pose was only in the head of
Mr Biden the president of the United
States but natany never recognized that
and never implemented that and the proof
to that is that some people who were
evicted from the north of Gaza and Gaza
City and while they were walking to the
south at salahadin Street were bombarded
by Israeli airplanes and and killed so
and Israel never accepted any kind of
ceasefire not even poses and these poses
were actually made to help Israel EV and
continue the process of ethnic cleansing
of the people in the north and center of
Gaza they were not meant to really help
the people and uh and and and in my in
my opinion the big question here that
should be asked as the head of the wh
have just asked in the security Council
why the United States of America and the
prime minister of Britain continue to
oppose ceas fire why don't they force
Israel to stop this atrocity while why
are they allowing this genocide on
Palestinian people and uh I think I
think uh I I've been hearing some of
your guests and and I think you should
be calling the Israeli Army not the
Israeli Army but the Israeli terrorist
Army because what they are conducting
against the civilian population of Gaza
is nothing but acts of Terror while the
United States and the likes of the UK
continue to offer their unequivocal
support to Israel of course there is
this diplomatic push that is going to
reach ahead I guess over the course of
the weekend the Arab League the
organization of Islamic Cooper operation
what role do you think that they are
likely to be able to play when it comes
to um ensuring humanitarian Aid reaches
Gaza will their involvement make a
difference to
you the involvement of me of whom the
Arab countries you mean the Arab
countries Regional
players they're very weak and they're
they're they have not done what they
should be doing I mean with the
exception of a a small number of
countries but in general I think think
one of the reasons why Netanyahu is
daring to continue these terrorist
attacks is because some Arab countries
continue to have normalized relations
with Israel because some Arab countries
continue to have Israeli ambassadors in
their country they have to kick them out
and they have also to tell Israel that
all the Arab countries in the coming
Arab Summit which is going to be held
tomorrow with the with a big
delay that they will send a convoy of
humanitarian Aid and challenge Israeli
Siege on Gaza they can do that they can
invite all World health organizations
and all humanitarian organizations in
the world to join them in challenging
this Israeli unacceptable Siege and
allows the the flow of food electricity
Fuel and everything to Gaza and water in
particular they can do that they can
also tell the United States of America
and and United Kingdom and any other
European country that continue to
support the Israelis unconditionally
that they will not receive Arab oil from
now on and that the Arabs will Arab
countries will not be importing stuff
from them I think only if they take
these measures then their their voice
will be counted for and and will be
considered otherwise we will see the
continuation of this terrible atrocity
against the Palestinian people what did
you do what did we do as Palestinians I
mean to the world in 1948 Israel was
established on our land they allowed
them to steal our land at the time when
Israel was established we owned 82% of
the land of of of historical Palestine
today Palestinians in Israel own only
3.5% then in 1967 they they occupied the
remaining of the country I want to ask
you and now they are ethnically
cleansing people from the West Bank
excuse me Mr bti I wanted to ask you
about something you said in a recent
interview you said that you believe very
strongly that it is
Benjamin netanyahu's goal to reoccupy
the Gaza Strip for an indefinite period
what would the consequences of that be
for the hope of Peace in the
region well nanyu said it himself I
didn't say it I just quoted Netanyahu
Netanyahu said I that he will keep
security control and Military control of
Gaza for an indefinite period this means
reoccupation uh but he wants to to
occupy Gaza ethnically cleanse most of
it Annex it to Israel and then find
somebody or some organization of some
entity to take care of the humanitarian
needs of the people because as an
occupying power he doesn't want to
fulfill his
responsibility exactly as he's doing now
in the West Bank so yes he wants and
that would mean uh not only shrinking
occupation it would mean expanding occup
occupation and that is the death toll to
the whole idea of Peace based on two-
State solution this man Netanyahu came
to power specifically to kill the
possibility of peace to kill the
possibility of two-state solution he's
the man who aggravated the public in
Israel against isak Rabin till till
Rabin was assassinated because he signed
a peace agreement with Palestinians and
Netanyahu made it the goal of his life
to kill the oso process to kill the
possib ility of two-state solution and
he's not hiding it and now he increased
the number of settlers from 120,000 in
the West Bank to more than 750,000 and
made them a fascist political power in
the Israeli Parliament and in the
Israeli government including people like
smotrich and Bing who are not only
extremist but they don't shy away from
calling themselves
fascists m bouti thank you very much for
for joining us in alaz Mustafa bouti
Secretary General of the Palestinian
national
initiative thank you